In their paper „Text entry for mobile computing: Models and methods, theory and practice.“ MacKenzie and Soukoref provide an overview of different methods of text input on mobile devices, and discuss different optimization techniques and factors for evaluation.

The first chapter consists of two parts, first a chronology of notable mobile devices and their methods of text input and influence on further developments beginning in the year 1991. Second, mobile text input is divided into two paradigms, pen-based and keyboard-based input.
The second chapter starts by declaring an evaluation method as valuable and useful, as long as it is reproducible and generalizable. Text-copy and text-creation are mentioned as two types of text entry and the term „focus of attention“ (FOA) is coined to discuss the attention demands of text entry tasks. Novice versus expert performance is considered difficult as immediate usability influences results. Additionally the importance of both quantitative and qualitative tasks is explained. Considering speed as one of two primary evaluation metrics, WPM (words per minute) and CPS (characters per second) are introduced as measurement units. Accuracy as second primary metric is more complicated, though keystrokes per character (KSPC) and confusion matrices are helpful methods. Chapter 3 identifies movement minimisation and language prediction as popular optimisation techniques. While the first focuses on efficiency of finger movements using Fitt’s law and the Hick-Hyman law, the latter tries to reduce the need for input by predicting what users want to write. Three points to consider are noted: Representativeness of the chosen corpus for a language, ignoring the edition process, as well as the lack of capturing input modalities. Hybrids and Key Minimization Techniques also are mentioned. Chapter 4 surveys text entry techniques. Several Key-Based techniques are listed, like the common telephone keypad and small qwerty keyboards, as well as five-key inputs and other small keyboards. As stylus-based techniques traditional handwriting recognition is compared to gesture-based and uni strokes models as well as soft keyboards. Also predictive input techniques are mentioned. The conclusion highlights the difficulty and complexity of choosing the best input technique for an application. 
